---
date: 2003-10-21 12:10:00 +0200
layout: hovercraft
tags: [en, hovercraft]
title: Liftoff
---

Well, I guess this is it. My name is captain chastell and I would like to welcome you all aboard this here fine vessel, <cite>the eelful hovercraft</cite>. Please make yourselves comfortable – the <cite>icing</cite> ticket on the railing was made especially to satisfy your different tastes, while at the same time the <cite>contact</cite> one allows bothering me to no end and for no particular reason whatsoever. Conversely, the <cite>fishing zone</cite> is not quite finished yet, but I doubt it would be of any use, anyway, as there aren’t that many eels to catch while we’re still near the harbour.

Now that we have the necessary formalities behind us, please allow me to introduce myself more, um, privately. Apart from being your full-time captain, I’m also a student at the [Institute of Telecommunications](http://www.tele.pw.edu.pl/index-en.html 'certainly a nice place to study') of the [Warsaw University of Technology](http://eng.pw.edu.pl/ 'I know, I know, the 90s called and want their design back') (but don’t let this worry you too much, I’ll manage), a self-made web developer and father to three, _and_ one of these facts is false, to boot; as you can see, it’s not quite your usual, run-of-the-mill one-man hovercraft crew you’ve got here. Probably.

Enough about me, though, let’s talk about her. Two and only two people are responsible for the launch of the <cite>old eelful</cite>, them being Jason G. of the <cite>[Deeply Shallow](http://www.deeplyshallow.com/ 'lately reborn')</cite> fame and <cite>the plot thickens</cite>’s very own Joe H. Any, and all mistakes you find here are at least partly their fault; anytime I humiliate myself in public because of my, er, _exceptional_ command of the English language – well, you know whom to blame.

(Originally, the first entry in this log was meant to be a parody of either [this](/hovercraft/ch920826.png 'Boy Genius') or [this](/hovercraft/ch920825.png 'the world would benefit from a record of my mental activities') <cite>Calvin and Hobbes</cite> strip, but then I decided that blasphemy can only go so far and you’ve got the above instead. Now you know everything.)

\[The paragraph mentioning <cite>icing</cite>, <cite>contact</cite> and <cite>fishing zone</cite> regards certain facilities removed in The Great 2010 Refurbishment of the <cite>old eelful</cite>. This was your captain speaking; carry on.\]
