---
date: 2004-02-21 00:36:42 +0100
layout: hovercraft
tags: [en, hovercraft]
title: Flyspray 0.9.5 is here (it’s just not widely distributed yet)
---

Today your captain is in a kind of a storytelling mood, so sit back, relax and listen to a tale about Open Source, code collaboration and why all of these ideas are Fundamentally Good Things™.

About a month ago I decided that my homebrew bug tracking system no longer meets the expectations, that it has to be replaced by something actually _working_, and that I don’t quite have the time to write it from scratch; it was high time to search for any ready-made solutions. [Bugzilla](http://bugzilla.org/ 'of the Mozilla fame') quickly came to mind as the be-all, end-all BTS, but almost equally quickly turned out to be a bit too complicated while lacking Polish localization and interface simplicity (the system was to be used by a couple of less computer oriented people – if not for them there would hardly be _any_ bugs to report in the first place…). A bunch of systems either required Java or ASP or some other strange and alien software not available on our server, and a couple would be perfect[^1] if not for their unexplainable slant toward MySQL being The One True and Really Great Open Source Database (it’s not). And so, after days and days spent surfing the Web and scratching off one BTS after another, on the January 31<sup>st</sup> I stumbled upon [Flyspray](http://flyspray.org/ 'Flyspray rocks, you see'), which had all the advantages (written in PHP, small, easy to use and localized), generated valid XHTML pages (yay!) and required MySQL. Bummer.

After initial doubt and despite the general feeling of resignation, I decied to take a peek at the Flyspray code and search for an easy way to port it to PostgreSQL (Postgres being, you guessed it right, The One True and Really Great Open Source Database), only to find that it won’t be easy, that Flyspray (0.9.4, mind you) is vulnerable to a variety of SQL injection attacks and that maybe after a year of work I would be able to come with something half-usable. So I told [the most patient and compassionate girlfriend in the world](http://thoughtscriber.net/ 'yes, her') about all the grief and sorrow, got a long, patient and compassionate hug and started coding, promptly [submitting](http://bugs.flyspray.org/task/164 'Flyspray BTS, task #164') a feature request to check whether my work would be of any use to anybody else. This is where the collaboration part of the story kicks in.

Much to my surprise, minutes after posting the feature request in the wee hours of February 1<sup>st</sup> I got a response (dated January 31<sup>st</sup> – gotta love the timezones, me being in Europe and the Flyspray team in Australia) stating the PostgreSQL port is in the works (hooray!) and the person working on it is, in fact, another Pole. After a bit of browsing it [turned out](http://suwalki.com.pl/~konrad/ 'Konrad’s home page') we also live in the same city, go to the same university and study in one faculty; he’s sixteen days younger than me, though. (The added twist was [reading](http://suwalki.com.pl/~konrad/projects/flyspray.html 'Konrad’s Flyspray page') on his page about the Flyspray injection-attacks-vulnerability I so thoroughly explained to Marta not a half hour before. I told you she’s patient. And compassionate.) After a quick exchange of emails I knew what the state of the PostgreSQL port was, how I can help, and two days later my first patch made its way to the [Flyspray svn trunk](https://flyspray.svn.sourceforge.net/svnroot/flyspray/trunk/ 'newest development version').

The Open Source idea, as well as the whole ideology of openness (‘the code wants to be free’) is a great thing. It allows not only to check how something exactly works, lower (or raise) related security concerns and have the whole world help to squash any bugs found, but also lets you make changes suiting your needs and give back to the community any enhancements you end with. Having read about it for years is a great thing; having the opportunity to be (even a very small) part of it is something much, much better.

[^1]: perfect, adj., ‘based on PHP and a database’
