---
date: 2004-01-24 17:34:37 +0100
layout: wycinki
tags: [pl, wycinki]
title: The right magic, part deux
---

Chlip
: <blockquote lang='en'><dl><dt>CTRL-W CTRL-C</dt><dd>You might have expected that CTRL-W CTRL-C closes the current window, but that does not work, because the CTRL-C cancels the command.</dd></dl></blockquote>
: „ha, ha”

chastell
: z czego to?

Chlip
: manuale do Vima

Jako że [przedostatni wycinek](/the-right-magic 'The right magic') spotkał się z niespotykaną dotychczas, a co więcej – pozytywną reakcją czytelników, Wasza ukochana redakcja postanowiła pójść po najmniejszej linii oporu i zacytować kilka kolejnych znalezisk (część znana już wcześniej, ale warto przypomnieć, bo ładne):

> Mutt recognises all of [the major MIME types] if the appropriate entry is found in the `mime.types` file. It also recognises other major MIME types, such as the chemical type that is widely used in the molecular modelling community to pass molecular data in various forms to various molecular viewers.
>
> [The Mutt E-Mail Client](http://www.mutt.org/doc/manual/manual-5.html#ss5.2 '5.2 MIME Type configuration with mime.types')
{:lang='en'}

> It is important to realize that any lock can be picked with a big enough hammer.
>
> Sun System & Network Admin Manual
{:lang='en'}

> * This error message was generated by an `\errmessage` command, so I can’t give any explicit help. Pretend that you’re Hercule Poirot: Examine all clues, and deduce the truth by order and method.
> * I suspect you’ve forgotten a ‘}’, causing me to apply this control sequence to too much text. How can we recover? My plan is to forget the whole thing and hope for the best.
>
> TeX error messages
{:lang='en'}

> `reboot -n`
> : Avoid the `sync(1M)` operation. This option can be used if a disk or the processor is on fire.
>
> `man reboot`, Solaris 2.4
{:lang='en'}

> The optimizer will notice this and optimize the post-increment into a pre-increment, because that’s a little more efficient to execute. (You didn’t need to know that, but we hoped it would cheer you up.)
>
> Larry Wall, Tom Christiansen and Randall L. Schwartz, <cite>Programming Perl</cite>
{:lang='en'}

> The primary purpose of the `DATA` statement is to give names to constants; instead of referring to pi as 3.141592653589793 at every appearance, the variable `PI` can be given that value with a `DATA` statement and used instead of the longer form of the constant. This also simplifies modifying the program, should the value of pi change.
>
> FORTRAN Manual for Xerox Computers
{:lang='en'}

> BUGS:
> : This manpage is confusing.
>
> `man 3 getopt`
{:lang='en'}

> * String literal too long (I let you have 512 characters, that’s 3 more than ANSI said I should).
> * A typedef name was a complete surprise to me at this point in your program.
> * You can’t modify a constant, float upstream, win an argument with the IRS, or satisfy this compiler.
> * This struct already has a perfectly good definition.
> * Type in (cast) must be scalar; ANSI 3.3.4; page 39, lines 10-11 (I know you don’t care, I’m just trying to annoy you).
> * Can’t cast a void type to type void (because the ANSI spec. says so, that’s why).
> * Call me paranoid but finding ‘/*’ inside this comment makes me suspicious.
> * This label is the target of a goto from outside of the block containing this label AND this block has an automatic variable with an initializer AND your window wasn’t wide enough to read this whole error message.
>
> MPW C Compiler
{:lang='en'}

Warto też wspomnieć, że o ile poprzednia linuksowe jądra nosiły nazwę kodową „greased weasel”, o tyle gałąź 2.6.x to już „stoned beaver”. Póki co zostanę chyba przy sprawdzonym 2.4.18.
